i have huge switching costs so
yesterday for the first time i said i've
shut down all notifications
um
it changed my day so fundamentally like
i was
in shock it felt unbelievably
efficient it probably was
because we lose so much time every time
we are looking at a notification and
then you have to get back to what you
are doing and then by the time you're
back in what you're doing there's
another notification imagine that um
so you know and if you can go till the
end of the day that is that is great um
i a lot of people can't quite do that
and so then if they think that's the
goal they're like well i can't even try
so i'm not gonna bother but you can
check in frequently but even if you just
said okay 15 minutes on the hour i'm
going to be in responsive mode i'm going
to be looking at my text my emails my
phone calls whatever and then i'm off
for 45 minutes and then i'm back on for
15 minutes and then i'm off for 45
minutes so yeah that if you can figure
out ways to control the inputs for
chunks of time during your day you can
you can get so much more done and not
lose all that time on task switching
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
an author and speaker whose ted talk how
to gain control of your free time has
more than 5 million views her work has
appeared in some of the most prestigious
publications in the world including the
new york times the wall street journal
fortune and fast company a natural
skeptic and playful contrarian her books
including i know how she does it 168
hours you have more time than you think
and off the clock include sharp witty
insights into how we can all get the
most out of our precious time she's also
written two novels sung at carnegie hall
and co-hosts her own podcast called best
of both worlds but before you assume
that she lives a soulless barren
existence where she has chosen to
sacrifice all joy for the sake of time
efficiency let me tell you that she also
is a wife and mother of four young
children who somehow even manages to
write almost daily for her thriving blog
additionally she's appeared on countless
television shows including such
mainstays as the today show and fox and
friends as well as being interviewed for
hundreds of radio segments so please
help me in welcoming the author of the
upcoming time management fable juliet
school of possibilities the woman who is
proving mathematically that you really
can have it all laura vanderkam
[Applause]
you worked the carnegie hall one in
there i had to that was uh that was
amazing i love that and one of the
things that i found really interesting
in researching you was the quote on the
cover of 168 hours
and i'm going to paraphrase it but it
was basically opening laura's book
convinced me that i had time to read it
and that i had time to reread war and
peace in the original russian thank you
laura so much for opening up my schedule
so how is it that you're able to open up
people's schedules what is the insight
that you've had that really shifts
people's paradigm well honestly i think
it is a paradigm shift a lot of us are
walking around with this story that i
have no time for anything either you
know if i'm giving it all at work i have
no energy for my personal life or if my
personal life's so complicated i'm just
going to have to coast for a while at
work or give up completely or if i
manage to do those things i'll have no
time for my own personal pursuits
and that lack mentality becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy when you think
you have no time you look for evidence
to support that and you know we all have
busy moments we all have crazy moments
but if you walk around with the story
that actually i do have time for the
things that matter to me well you start
to look for evidence to support that and
there are certainly moments when you
know life is going well and i think we
should celebrate that and when people
see that then they start to find open
time one of the cool things about your
approach
is one it's a pretty no bs approach in
terms of the math and breaking it down
for people how much time they have but
one of the things i found really
empowering is this notion that you can
actually extend pleasure
explain that what do you mean by that
how do we cultivate memories which is
another really powerful idea that you
have yes there's a couple ways of
looking at timing i mean one is very
straightforward it marches forward we
have 60 seconds in a minute 60 minutes
in an hour and once a second is gone it
is gone you cannot get it back so
there's that but time also has this big
relationship with our memory and how we
perceive it
and
when we think about how much time we
have that's actually a function of how
many memories we have of any given unit
of time i mean one way of thinking of
this is if you go on a vacation
somewhere exotic you know it can feel
like a week has passed before breakfast
because your brain has no idea what it
needs to remember and so it's
remembering all of it and as it's
remembering all these things it's making
you feel like you have more time whereas
if you consider an average tuesday i
mean most people can't even remember
getting dressed in the morning and
getting to work somehow it happened but
it's just gone right it's not there at
all and so when you know that you can
start to manipulate this your perception
of time
you can put more memorable things into
your life
one thing i tell people is to try to
answer the question of why today is
going to be different from any other day
in your life and if you can answer why
it's different you're more likely to
remember it and if you have more days
that you remember you start to feel like
you have more time do you have advice
for people on how to make an average day
different that was one thing as i was
going through the research i was like
wow my days are so repetitive it's crazy
and some of that is intentional some of
that is me trying to be efficient
and then as i was thinking about how to
really make the average day for me
different i was struggling
to do like authentic things where i'd
really be pursuing something i was
interested in so how do you advise
people around that yeah so i mean
routines are great things and and you
talk about this and many of your guests
have talked about this and the
importance of routine because they make
good habits automatic right so we want
to have good routines in our lives but
we don't want routines to be the only
things in our lives because then every
day is the same as every other day
so ways to think about this sort of
authentically when you think about like
what am i going to do on this weekend
well i could just you know watch tv put
her around the house and then it will
feel like i didn't really have a weekend
or you can maybe make a list of you know
anything in life or you know the world
you might want to see in particular if
we're thinking about a weekend you know
things within two hours of your house
probably that you're going to want to
see
but anything you might enjoy things your
family members might enjoy and then you
can look and say well what of those
things could i put into my schedule and
you know on an average day it might be
something as simple as trying a new
restaurant for lunch or
having a conversation with a colleague
that you've always just kind of waved to
in the hall um it could mean
participating in a meeting that you
normally just observe like you actually
speak up but when you do little things
like this
you feel like you have more time and if
you really pause and enjoy these things
and take in what's happening then you
can stretch the experience of time
itself you know do you think if we were
going to go through somebody's diary and
you've looked at a lot of time diaries
i've seen thousands at this point yeah
like a ridiculous number do you feel
like you're getting to know the person
by looking at their time diary oh
definitely i mean although some people
put in more details than others but
you know yes you get to know them
because you start to see like oh this
person you know
always does lunch this way or this
person thinks about what he or she is
doing in the morning before going to
work this person clearly likes hanging
out with their family because they're
coming up with fun stuff to do in the
evenings together you know this person
likes to do things with their friends
and and thinks about that and and you
really do start to get to see what a
person values in their lives because
that's what's reflected in how they
spend their time
yeah that leads me to priorities and you
have the story you've told a thousand
times about you know the person whose
water heater breaks and if you had asked
them moments before they would have said
there's no way i have seven free hours
in my week it breaks and they find the
seven hours
but that hits at something bigger to me
which is the priorities and taking
control of that which seems almost as
important as the time itself
how do you think about priorities in
your life and what have you learned
about prioritization from all the time
diaries you've seen yeah it can be very
difficult to prioritize things that we
personally want to do or we know would
be good for ourselves and that we want
to you know do big in the world but are
not
immediately deadline driven or not you
know doing for someone else for our boss
for our families and and of course the
story of the the water heater is you
know when something big happens in our
lives and we have to deal with it
there's a sudden disaster it could be a
client emergency or you know a family
emergency you find the time right you're
gonna deal with it um the question is
how can you make other things in your
life feel that urgent how can you treat
the things that are priority to you as
the equivalent of a broken water heater
you know there's water all over my
basement i have to do something about
this well we don't think that like oh
you know training for a triathlon is
water all over my basement gotta get to
it writing that book water all over my
basement gotta get to it um you know
spending time with my family water all
over the basement gotta do it it's just
it it's hard to make that um change in
in our mindset but if you can if you can
light at least a little bit of that fire
under you um i mean there's there's no
limit to what you can do
so touching on that i'm a huge proponent
of cultivating something whether that's
really thinking about what you want or
it's the expanding the pleasure
cultivating memories deciding what you
want you have this notion of the micro
memoirs
walk people through that i think that's
pretty profound and i really want to
hear more about how you
are essentially constructing the way
that you're going to remember something
yeah so memory is not just the
straightforward thing i think a lot of
us think of memory as a filing cabinet i
mean you just put something in it it's
there you know it kind of fades as time
goes on but but it's there right exactly
as you put it that's not the way memory
works at all if you think about telling
a story of say you know your honeymoon
you and your spouse are going to tell it
in different ways it's going to change
over time as you see how people react to
it and eventually the story becomes the
memory it may not be exactly what
happened maybe it kind of pushes things
together that the characters become more
pronounced the plot is is more focused
than it is and how real life happens but
that becomes the memory and and so you
can actually think about this as you are
proactively creating memories um you
know so if you're going to do something
interesting you might pause and think
ahead about like how can i make sure
i remember this like what could i do to
cement this into my brain and there's
all sorts of things you can do i mean
you can obviously pay attention during
the time um if there's somebody with you
you can talk about having this
experience together you can even
manipulate your senses i know probably
people have had this experience of a
certain smell is very associated with
something in your life and it could be
as simple as like a hotel bar of soap
like you remember that hotel and every
time you sniff that scent for the rest
of your life it immediately brings you
back there or a song you know if you
listen to a song over and over again
during an experience that song when you
hear it again it will bring that
experience back so you can actually do
those things
how do people become present in that
moment i know you've you've talked about
that bike ride that you took and and you
know you're thinking about all the
things you have to do how did you become
present in that moment well sometimes
i mean something is just so amazing that
it forces the presence on us if people
have had that you know pure experience
of awe something is just so beautiful or
you see you know you're driving around
you see an amazing vista you know these
things can stop you in your tracks um so
there's that uh but you know it's the
nature of the human brain to think about
something else and it's almost comical i
mean you can be looking at this amazing
sunset and all of a sudden you're like
did i pay my electric bill you know this
just the way the human brain works and
and there's not you can't completely
conquer that but you can kind of steer
yourself back to it and take in more and
say okay rather than think about my
electric bill let me just challenge
myself to look at the colors let me
describe the colors of this sunset to
myself
let me
try to you know name the things i see in
this picture let me think about writing
this later let me
just think about how i would describe it
and and by consciously putting your
brain back in the scene itself um that
can help with that that's really
interesting thinking about how you would
describe something later to really force
you to sort of pick out the details i
think that's really interesting talk to
me about the
writing your christmas card a year in
advance the notion of like planning
where you want things to go yeah so you
can do this for both work and personal i
mean figuring out what actually matters
to you figuring out what are your
priorities and what steps you need to
take to get there um it you know it's
difficult but but there's some practical
ways we can think about doing this so in
your personal life you think about you
know
people
don't do this so much anymore now that
everyone sends photo cards but but back
in the day those of us who are old
enough to remember this but people would
send these letters
that would describe what their family
did during the course of the year and
you send this around to your far-flung
friends and relations who somehow
haven't followed you on facebook or
whatever uh and you know these letters
are often horrible i mean they
go on about how amazing everyone in the
family is and how awesome the year has
been but they serve a purpose which is
that they tell your friends and family
what you did in your personal life that
mattered to you so
the way you can use this is picture
yourself in december of you know the end
of the year
and if you were writing one of those
letters
picture yourself you know writing that
and and think that it's been an amazing
year you're writing one of those
obnoxious letters because it has been so
amazing
what would be in it like what would you
want to tell your friends and family you
did that was so amazing and so if you
can write that letter
many months ahead of when you would be
sending it well then you know what you
want to do i mean this is the year you
planned that extended family trip to
ireland over the summer you know this is
the year you ran that 10k this is the
year that you joined a choir with your
daughter right there's all these things
you might put on a letter and if you
think about that ahead of time then you
can actually do them so that the letter
can come true
i think at this point in the discussion
is probably worth doing the math
breakdown for people because i can hear
people saying this is all amazing this
is great i just don't have time for this
so there are 168 hours in a week i love
to use that number because it's one
people don't think about uh the reason
to know this number uh is well one it's
a better depiction of life i mean we
don't just live our lives and days
tuesday and saturday both have the same
number of hours they are both you know
just as frequently occurring on the
calendar but they look very different
for people
whereas a week tends to be the more
repeating cycle of life
but if you work 40 hours so that is a
full-time job
if you sleep eight hours a night so that
is 56 hours per week that leaves 72
hours for other things which is quite a
bit of time you know and that's with a
full-time job and people say well i
don't work 40 hours a week i work more
than that okay fine you work 50 hours a
week that leaves 62 hours for other
things for you know family commitments
personal comments you work 60 hours that
leaves 52 hours for other things i mean
we're still talking a lot of time you
know even if you you keep bumping up the
work hours so is there time for spending
time with your family sure
is there time for exercising sure is
there time for volunteering sure you
know even if you are working long hours
now you might need to be creative about
organizing some of those hours you might
need to think about how much energy you
have at different points but
mathematically the time is probably
there when you think about guilt i think
a lot of people have guilt around how
they should be spending their time
they certainly have a narrative about
their relationship to time
and i don't know how much you get into
this but like whether it's in your
personal life or in your blogging or
speaking
do you talk to people at all about
overcoming some of those emotional
hurdles which aren't based in math but
the pushback they'll give you makes it
sound like it's based in math yeah i
mean well people say you know there's
just not enough hours in the day you
know there is often the feeling that we
should be doing something else um that
you know if you're at work you should
you're missing out on something at home
if you're at home while your you know
colleagues are covering for you and
therefore you should feel guilty about
that on the weekend the house you know
there's a million projects you need to
do and so if you're relaxing well that
shows you're a lazy person or something
there's all sorts of stories we can tell
ourselves about that and i think that
does play into the narrative and it
encourages us to think that we have no
time because then that's an excuse you
know i don't have any time therefore i
can't do all these things and say well
that's fine if we can't do all these
things but we can still choose the ones
that we wish to do and how do people
lose their time so if we all have these
hours
i think that people would be a little
bit surprised if they were to do a time
diary about how much time sort of leaks
out of their life what are some of the
big ways that people lose time without
really being aware of it so honestly the
biggest way people lose time is by being
unintentional about it
you don't think about what you'd like to
do with your time and so you could do
something but you don't because you
haven't thought about it uh one obvious
thing of this is on on the weekend you
know maybe you
could go for a bike ride that would
require like getting up and doing it you
know going out somewhere in the in the
morning you don't think about what you
want to do until it's like 1 p.m on the
weekend and then by that point you can't
go do the longer ride or you know there
are things your family needs to get to
so you're not going to be able to fit it
in
and so big chunks of time can sort of
disappear because we haven't thought
about what we'd like to do with it
i think that's so important and i love
the idea that you have about taking
fridays afternoons would you have a
whole really interesting thing about
saturday 5 a.m is the mid point of the
week thursday thursday thursday 5 p.m i
was scandalized by that oh yes what yeah
so um
the way that i combated this sort of
what should i be doing i created an
important things list
but talk to people about that friday
afternoon
and how they can build intentionality
why friday afternoon
and why it's important to realize that
thursday at 5 00 a.m is the middle of
the week well so friday afternoon is
when i plan my upcoming weeks and people
say well what's the one thing i can do
to spend my time better i thought well
we should figure out how we're spending
it now you should do that so i take some
time
friday afternoon
make myself a short three category
priority list for the following week
career
relationships self
what are my top priorities in each of
those three categories the reason to
make a three category list is that it is
very difficult to make a three category
list and then leave one of the
categories blank so that's just like a
simple nudge right there
i can't leave that blank you know oh i
got to put something in that so then
relationships gets a priority hey great
self gets a priority great
but just you know a couple things in
each look at the next week see where
they can go
and as much as possible i try to front
load the week because if you put as many
of those priorities as possible monday
and tuesday well then when stuff comes
up because stuff will come up because
that's life
you've either done it before the
emergencies arise or if the emergencies
happen to arise on monday and tuesday
there's still time the rest of the week
to get to it whereas if you plan all
your priorities for friday you know
stuff happens and you can't do it the
reason for friday afternoon is pretty
much that it's a low opportunity cost
time most people are doing absolutely
nothing of consequence by friday
afternoon you're kind of sliding into
the weekend you're like i i wonder if i
can slip out of here like does anyone
get a notice maybe i just will pick up
my phone but if you think about what
future you should be doing you can take
what would be wasted time and turn it
into some of your most productive
minutes of the week i love this concept
of 100
dreams what is that how do people use it
why is it important yeah so this was a
great exercise that a career coach
shared with me many years ago which is
you know it's a good answer to that
question of
people think they have no time and so
they don't think of what they want to do
with their time and then when time
appears we do whatever is easiest
because we don't think we have any time
we haven't thought about it so that's
why we wind up scrolling around on our
phones all the time the list of 100
dreams sort of helps to solve this so
completely
unedited list of anything you want to
spend more time doing um so
the first third is easy because people
often want to travel more so it's like
the 33 countries they want to visit so
we got that all right but after that it
starts getting a lot harder and be like
oh well there's that state park an hour
away you know we've lived here for six
years we've yet to get to or you know
really want to bike more there's a
couple bike trails near my house i want
to do or you know i should read poetry
or i'd like to go try that restaurant
somewhere or you know get to the library
and do whatever like you start to get
far more doable as you get toward a
hundred and you have to come back to
this several times um to actually get to
a hundred
but then
having this list when you have open time
or you're making your priority list for
the upcoming week you say well let me
pull something off that list you know
maybe this is the weekend i will go to
that state park or you know i will go
for that bike ride on you know tuesday
over lunch if that's an option in your
life
and then you're doing cool things right
that intentionality aspect i think is so
critical you talked about how if um for
a long time i wanted to read more but i
didn't plan ahead and so i didn't have a
good book and suddenly once i planned
ahead and i had a good book and it
really captured my imagination it was a
page turner all of a sudden i found
little spurts three minutes here seven
minutes there and i was suddenly reading
a lot more um i think that's really
interesting what other things like that
have you found where just a little bit
of intention can really dramatically
shift the way that you use your time
yeah books are a big one because
yeah if you don't have a good book to
read you will do whatever's easiest and
you can get on instagram in 30 seconds
whereas if you can't get to a book in 30
seconds then you won't do it right um
you know thinking about things to listen
to in the car um i spend a lot more time
in my car than i thought i did
i kept track of my time and i realized
i'm in my car well over an hour a day on
average so you know it that is time what
can i do with it and i was just
listening to whatever was on the radio
and i was getting really sick of a lot
of the songs that were on the radio i
you know and so i started listening to
more podcasts and you know things like
that and wow yeah there's a lot of cool
stuff out there but if i wasn't
intentional about the time and thought
about well let me load up a podcast on
my phone and then the time's completely
gone yeah
how can people allocate
a usable amount of time to things that
they're passionate about but that are
ultimately going to take a long time to
do how do they keep that from being
overwhelming how do they make sure that
they have success so they're not
discouraged do you encourage people to
think of their life in in a year chunk
in smaller chunks so if it's a big
project like writing a book you want to
say in that year-end holiday letter that
you wrote a book well then you can start
breaking it down and putting things
related to that on each week's priority
list right so
maybe this week you think well what step
could i take toward doing that well i'm
going to
write you know just what is the thesis
of my book all right i did that great
that's all i have to do all right the
next week i'm going to write maybe
a couple chapters i think could be in
that
great you've done it the next week you
start writing little outlines in each of
those chapters okay you've done that
moving forward you don't want to
overwhelm yourself you want to don't
want to bite off more than you can chew
but if you are writing 1500 words a week
for the rest of the year you're gonna
have a book at the end of it and not a
short one actually
so it's these little things done
repeatedly if you only you know set
yourself a very small goal
but you meet it and then you just keep
going you can do amazing things
why did the topic of time become such an
obsession for you i mean you've really
written a lot about this topic well i
mean i have always been interested in
productivity
um and and i can sort of see that going
back through my life i think it became a
real issue for me something i truly
cared about when i became a parent for
the first time
almost 12 years ago now
and i was trying to figure out well how
am i going to make time for all these
different areas of my life obviously i
want to be a good mom i'd like to spend
a lot of time with my kid um i also have
these other things i want to do that i
don't want to give up and a lot of the
story out there is that well you know
once you're a parent and particularly a
mother
that should be your whole life like
nothing else i was like well but i like
these other things i want to do them too
so how am i going to make that work and
so i started studying people who were
doing a lot with their time and you know
that's when i started to see that idea
of thinking about a week instead of a
day you mentioned earlier that idea that
5 pm thursday is the mid point of the
week so when i track my time i start
monday at 5 a.m that's my time diary
seems like the start of the week monday
at 5 a.m so it goes monday 5 a.m to
monday at 5 a.m
if that is the week then the exact
midway point is thursday at 5 p.m
which you know you think about a lot of
people thursday at 5 p.m kind of sounds
like the end of the week right you know
it's we're we're done that's that's it's
all over at that point but it's not it
is mathematically the exact midway point
and the reason i think this is important
particularly from this question like
work life balance like am i spending
enough time with my family or my you
know career or am i working too much or
am i gone too much a lot of the time
when people are looking at their work
life balance they're looking at their
work work-life balance from monday at 5
00 a.m
to thursday at 5 00 pm
and i don't know what your work-life
balance is during that window but i'm
guessing that your work-life balance
from 5 p.m thursday to 5 a.m monday is
entirely different and it's possible
that those two balances start to you
know balance each other out and and when
we see that and look at time
holistically uh then we we stop viewing
life so much as either or you know
pitting work against family and work and
family against self and all of that
against you know community and friends
you know there's space for all of it in
your research you were saying that very
successful people actually have the
least what i'll call these aren't your
words but the least abusive relationship
with time they actually feel in
abundance and how have they gotten to
that point especially and been as
successful as they've been
yeah well i think it's related because
when you're telling yourself i have no
time well then you don't have time for
doing these important things you just
have to react to everything and then
you're only reacting you're never moving
forward um you know i don't have time to
start that business i don't have time to
do whatever
whereas the people who have a more
abundant perspective on time well they
do have time to start that business
because they've got all the time in the
world why not why wouldn't i start that
business and so i think that's a very
important mindset shift
they're very careful about i mean
they're intentional with their time so
they're only putting in things that they
think are important for them to do i
would say the one other thing that i've
seen
a lot of and i think is so important
because it's a bit counter-intuitive
is that people who are really good with
time
and who are doing a lot are very good
about building in open space
and they do that for a couple reasons
one is that it's practical um because
everything
takes longer than you think it will uh
and nobody really likes to be late and
rushing it's very hard to feel good
about life when you are always late and
rushing everywhere
but it's also about how we get
opportunity in our lives uh if you're
having a really good conversation with
someone it's good to continue that
conversation and see what great ideas
come out of it uh rather than be like oh
yep gotta go you know looking at the
time because i know i have another
meeting of 10 more are stacked up today
and so they're very good about creating
more open space so they can seize those
opportunities
yeah that makes a lot of sense
one thing that i found for me that's
really been extraordinary and i just did
yesterday an experiment with this and i
think it's going to work it's a little
too early but i have huge switching
costs and so um historically until
yesterday i would check my phone
routinely because if somebody had a
question i wanted to make sure that i
got back to them quickly so i just felt
like i was getting nothing done so
yesterday for the first time i said i've
shut down all notifications um
it changed my day so fundamentally like
i was
in shock and so i told everybody look i
will get back to you by the end of the
day but not until the end of the day so
i didn't even basically come out of um
my office until
like 5 p.m or something and then i
started getting back to people and
responding to a text message it felt
unbelievably efficient
it probably was
because we lose so much time every time
we are looking at a notification and
then you have to get back to what you're
doing and then by the time you're back
in what you're doing there's another
notification imagine that
so you know and if you can go till the
end of the day that is that is great um
i a lot of people can't quite do that
and so then if they think that's the
goal they're like well i can't even try
so i'm not gonna bother but you can
check in frequently but even if you just
said okay 15 minutes on the hour i'm
going to be in responsive mode i'm going
to be looking at my text my emails my
phone calls whatever and then i'm off
for 45 minutes and then i'm back on for
15 minutes and then i'm off for 45
minutes so yeah that if you can figure
out ways to control the inputs for
chunks of time during your day you can
you can get so much more done and not
lose all that time on task switching
now i know if i ask or i assume if i
asked you that you would say that what's
important to one person may not be
important to another but you've shown
like some correlations between people
doing a certain kind of thing and it
really having a substantial impact on
either the ability to create more
memorable experiences and thusly the
time essentially dilates and they feel
like they have more of it
what are some universals where when
people do that it really seems to have a
profound effect
well one of the things that
is really good for feeling like you have
more time is spending more time with
people whose company you enjoy
and that seems very straightforward like
of course we should see friends and
family that sounds great and yet people
don't do it
because it takes effort to do so i did a
time diary project where i had 900 busy
people track their time for a day
and then i asked them questions about
how they felt about their time and i
could give them a score because i called
it a time perception score so people who
felt time was abundant or people who
felt time was scarce and they were
starved for time
time perception scores rose in direct
correlation with how much time people
spent interacting with friends and
family um and it's not that the people
who had the highest time scores had more
time than anyone else i mean these were
all sort of equivalently busy people and
it turned out that the people with the
lowest time perception scores spent more
time watching tv and more time online
than the people with the high time
perception score so they all had leisure
time it's just they were spending it in
different ways it turns out that being
social tends to make you feel like you
have more time whereas
being social online often makes you feel
like you have a little bit less it sort
of gets away from you and you know i say
this as an introverted person i i'm not
saying you have to be in a party every
night but there are people
that you like even if you are very
introverted and and what you can do to
spend more time with those people um
will be time well spent there's this
idea of effortless fun and effortful fun
and getting together with people whose
company you enjoy is effortful fun right
it takes a lot of work you got to call
them make plans you got to go do
something together you probably have to
dress up i mean not dress up but at
least you know
wear clothes like you can't necessarily
be in in your pajamas um
you know you make a plan like you have
to do it even if it was like not a great
day at work like you're gonna still go
to it
whereas you know surfing the web doesn't
demand any of that right it's completely
effortless fun so it's the difference
between throwing a dinner party which is
effortful fun and looking on instagram
at photos of other people's dinner
parties which is effortless fun they're
both a reasonable way to spend an
evening but one is obviously going to be
much more memorable and feel much more
sort of profound like you have this time
for doing awesome things in your life if
you actually have the dinner party
so you know you want to make sure you
invest some in that kind of behavior all
right so people have been listening to
this and they're super intrigued
what do you hope people take away from
juliet's school of possibilities i found
it really interesting that you did it as
a novel
and i was surprised by the things that
she struggled with i thought it was
going to be
and maybe i feared it was going to be a
little more straightforward actually
ended up being quite nuanced and i found
the the breakdown of what she was
struggling with to be very interesting
so what do you want people to take away
from that yeah so i mean i've written a
lot about time management and you know
strategies and ideas and time diary
studies and it's like well if i'm going
to keep writing about this i have to try
a different tactic so i decided to write
a novella about how people spend their
time
and juliet's school of possibilities is
about a young consultant whose life is
falling apart on various dimensions
because she is
trying to do everything
and particularly as you move into
management you can't just do what's
right in front of you actually to think
about what is the right thing to be
doing that's very difficult and so she's
really struggling with it and so you
know her her company gives her an
ultimatum her personal life is falling
apart too
um and until she you know meets this
mentor figure who helps her see how you
can learn to choose well even when there
are infinite demands on you and so what
i hope people will take from this
is a phrase that this this mentor this
juliet woman keeps telling her which is
that expectations are infinite
time is finite
you are always choosing choose well
and the reason i like this phrase is is
because
you know we have this idea well if i
just work harder i can i can get all
this stuff done or maybe if i'm just a
better person i can do meet all the
demands in my personal life no
expectations are infinite you cannot do
everything even if you work 24 hours a
day even if you never slept you still
couldn't do everything that somebody
might want you to do
but once you realize that you realize
that you're always choosing
how to spend your time then you can
start to make those choices more
consciously you can actually choose well
and think about how i might choose well
in any given moment to create the life i
want
i love that
all right before i ask my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
online yeah well i hope people will come
visit my website lauravandercam.com it's
just my name
and you can find out more about my books
and podcasts and stuff there and i
blog you know at least a couple times a
week i guess i'm still stuck in 2006
with that but i i started blogging and i
realized i like it so i'm just going to
stick with it even if people stop
reading blogs um so hopefully people
will check that out as well awesome
my last question
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
well i hope that i will help people
realize that they do have time for
whatever is important to them i mean we
talk ourselves into this idea that oh
i'll never be able to do x i'll never be
able to do why i just don't have the
time and i don't believe that's true i
believe we do have time in 168 hours we
all have each week for what matters to
us and particularly i would like to help
people see
that life is not either or that
professional success does not need to
come at the expense of having an awesome
personal life nor does an awesome
personal life need to come at the
expense of achieving you know great
things in the world changing the world
in some way to make it a better place so
i hope i can help people see that
there's time for both awesome i love
that guys i was really surprised at how
much nuance and depth there is when you
go and look at this one topic i was i
wasn't sure like how much it was going
to be broad or if it was going to be
something where you're really going to
get the gist of quite quickly and she's
done an extraordinary job of really
showing all the ways that your life is
defined by the way that you think of
time and then how you think of time
echoes through all of the choices that
you make she talked about it here she
goes into great detail in her works
about that her books are phenomenal
they're really fantastic it's actually
super interesting to see one done as a
novella so that you get more of an
emotional connection you're there in the
room as her life is falling apart and
you see the way that she begins to
change that notion of time and begins to
thusly rebuild her life and it's really
really insightful and really interesting
and that is a hallmark of everything
that she does there's just a level of
insight that's data driven which makes
it all the more fascinating that i think
you guys will really resonate with and
then if you experiment with this stuff
it really will change the way that you
approach your own life in profound ways
and yesterday having had the experience
of how making one little change about
how often i checked my phone
had
an unimaginably big impact on my day
that that one change
this is important and i think if you
dive into her world and really put some
of this stuff to use it will have a
radical effect on your life
all right if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
thank you so much
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're going to get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential